Add methylation analysis methods (#21)
d3b-center/OpenPedCan-methods: content/06.methods.md

#### Methylation Analysis
##### Methylation array preprocessing

> We preprocessed raw Illumina Infinium Human Methylation Bead Arrays (450K and EPIC(850K)) intensities using the array preprocessing methods implemented in the minfi Bioconductor package[@doi:10.1093/bioinformatics/btw691]. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We preprocessed raw Illumina 450K and EPIC 850K Infinium Human Methylation Bead Array intensities using the array preprocessing methods implemented in the minfi Bioconductor package[@doi:10.1093/bioinformatics/btw691]. 
```

> We utilized either `preprocessFunnorm` when an array dataset has control samples (i.e., normal and tumor samples) or multiple OpenPedcan cancer groups and `preprocessQuantile` when an array dataset has only tumor samples from a single OpenPedcan cancer group to estimate usable methylation measurements (`beta-values` and `m-values`) and copy number (`cn-values`). 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We utilized either `preprocessFunnorm` when an array dataset had both tumor and normal samples or multiple OpenPedcan-defined `cancer_groups` and `preprocessQuantile` when an array dataset had only tumor samples from a single OpenPedcan-defined `cancer_group` to estimate usable methylation measurements (`beta-values` and `m-values`) and copy number (`cn-values`). 
```

> We dropped array probes containing SNPs at either the CpG interrogation or the single nucleotide extensions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We dropped array probes containing SNPs at either the CpG interrogation or the single nucleotide extensions.
```
Can you either elaborate on what these mean, or add something like, per some sort of gold standard suggestion and cite a paper? I gather this is going to affect binding but I am not familiar with these terms and would be good to cite. Also, do we have a file containing this information, or is it part of the package, and specific to each array type correct?

> Details of the methylation array preprocessing are available in the [OpenPedCan methylation-preprocessing module](https://github.com/PediatricOpenTargets/OpenPedCan-analysis/tree/dev/analyses/methylation-preprocessing).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Details of methylation array preprocessing are available in the [OpenPedCan methylation-preprocessing module](https://github.com/PediatricOpenTargets/OpenPedCan-analysis/tree/dev/analyses/methylation-preprocessing).
```

> Some Illumina Infinium array probes targeting CpG loci contain single-nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) near or within the probe [@doi:10.1038/bjc.2013.496], which could affect DNA methylation measurements [@doi:10.1186/s12864-015-2202-0]. As the minfi preprocessing workflow recommends, we dropped probes containing common SNPs in dbSNP (minor allele frequency > 1%) at the CpG interrogation or the single nucleotide extensions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Some Illumina Infinium array probes targeting CpG loci contain single-nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) near or within the probe [@doi:10.1038/bjc.2013.496], which could affect DNA methylation measurements [@doi:10.1186/s12864-015-2202-0]. 
As the minfi preprocessing workflow recommends, we dropped probes containing common SNPs in dbSNP (minor allele frequency > 1%) at the CpG interrogation or the single nucleotide extensions.
```
thanks! just changed to one sentence per line

##### Methylation beta-values summaries
We comprehensively summarized gene-level and isoform-level metrics for the methylation `beta-values` estimated by array preprocessing to provide insight into the variations in overall genomic DNA methylation levels observed across different pediatric tumors by computing CpG probe-level summary metrics in each cancer group within a cohort, including 1) `beta-values quantiles`, 2) `gene expression (TPM) and methylation (beta-values) correlation`, 3) `TPM median expression`, and 4) `transcript representation` - a proxy for percent isoform expression in a gene. 

> In addition, each CpG probe is annotated with a gene feature to identify the genomic regions likely involved in regulating gene expression. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In addition, each CpG probe was annotated with a gene feature to identify the genomic regions likely involved in regulating gene expression. 
```
making tense consistent

> Details of the anayses process are available in the [OpenPedCan methylation-summary module](https://github.com/PediatricOpenTargets/OpenPedCan-analysis/tree/dev/analyses/methylation-summary).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Details of the analysis are available in the [OpenPedCan methylation-summary module](https://github.com/PediatricOpenTargets/OpenPedCan-analysis/tree/dev/analyses/methylation-summary).
```

##### Methylation sample classification

> To classify pediatic CNS tumors molecular subtypes, we upplaoded the unprocessed IDAT-files of the [Children's Brain Tumor Network (CBTN)](https://cbtn.org/) `Infinium Human Methylation EPIC (850k) BeadChip arrays` to the [dkfz's brain classifier version 12.5](https://www.molecularneuropathology.org/mnp/classifiers/11), a comprehensive DNA methylation-based classification of CNS tumors across all entities and age groups, and demonstrate its application in a routine diagnostic setting. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We ran the [dkfz's brain classifier version 12.5](https://www.molecularneuropathology.org/mnp/classifiers/11), a comprehensive DNA methylation-based classification of CNS tumors across all entities and age groups [@doi:10.1038/nature26000]. 
Unprocessed IDAT-files from the [Children's Brain Tumor Network (CBTN)](https://cbtn.org/) `Infinium Human Methylation EPIC (850k) BeadChip arrays` were used as input and the following information was compiled into the `histologies.tsv` file: `dkfz_v12_methylation_subclass` (predicted methylation subtype), `dkfz_v12_methylation_subclass_score` (classification score), `dkfz_v12_methylation_mgmt_status` (_MGMT_ methylation status), and `dkfz_v12_methylation_mgmt_estimated` (estimated _MGMT_ methylation fraction).
```

> Detailed implementation of the classifier is described in `Caper et al., 2018` [@doi:10.1038/nature26000]. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
